React js:

->ReactJS basically is an open-source JavaScript library which is used for building user interfaces specifically for single page applications. It’s used for handling view layer for web and mobile apps. React also allows us to create reusable UI components.
React was first created by Jordan Walke, a software engineer working for Facebook. React first deployed on Facebook’s newsfeed in 2011 and on Instagram.com in 2012.
 
->React allows developers to create large web applications which can change data, without reloading the page.
The main purpose of React is to be fast, scalable, and simple. It works only on user interfaces in application. 
This corresponds to view in the MVC template. It can be used with a combination of other JavaScript libraries or frameworks, such as Angular JS in MVC.



Why React Js?

1)Simplicity:

->ReactJS is just simpler to grasp right away. The component-based approach, well-defined lifecycle, and use of just plain JavaScript make React very simple to learn, build a professional web (and mobile applications), and support it. React uses a special syntax called JSX which allows you to mix HTML with JavaScript. This is not a requirement; Developer can still write in plain JavaScript but JSX is much easier to use.

2)Easy to learn:

->Anyone with a basic previous knowledge in programming can easily understand React while Angular and Ember are referred to as ‘Domain specific Language’, implying that it is difficult to learn them. For react you just need basic knowledge of CSS and HTML.

3)Native Approach:

React can be used to create mobile applications (React Native). And React is a diehard fan of reusability, meaning extensive code reusability is supported. So at the same time we can make IOS, Android and Web application.

4)Data Binding:

React uses one-way data binding and an application architecture called Flux controls the flow of data to components through one control point – the dispatcher. It's easier to debug self-contained components of large ReactJS apps.

5)Performance:
React does not offer any concept of a built-in container for dependency. You can use Browserify, Require JS, EcmaScript 6 modules which we can use via Babel, ReactJS-di to inject dependencies automatically.

6)Testability:

ReactJS applications are super easy to test. React views can be treated as functions of the state, so we can manipulate with state we pass to the ReactJS view and take a look at the output and triggered actions, events, functions, etc.

references- https://www.c-sharpcorner.com/article/what-and-why-reactjs/

